---
layout: post
title: "On Guides,"
category: article
tags: self-help
---
I've been thinking about.. my childhood lately; about what I would say to him,
if I could reach back in time. <br>
I've been thinking about what he would say to me. How would he see me? <br>
Would he be proud? Confused? ..Upset? <br>
What would he think about the things I had to say? <br>
What _do_ I have to say? <br>
And what of my role in the future, as a parent to my child? <br>
And what of my role in the present, as a parent to myself? <br><br>
The parent is not only a gaurdian, but a guide to the child, to greater
fields, to greater heights.<br>
..but who guides me..?<br>

And so I thought about that for a while.

---
## What are guides, and how do they differ from role-models and inspirations?
Guides are those you trust to offer good direction. And they often
_can_ be role-models, and they often _can_ be inspirations, or at
least, sources of. But unlike, role-models, and inspirations, guides are not
so essential to the core of your identity. Guides exist within a segment of
time; guides are temporary. They are those who help you build your path in the
present moment, and they last only until it is natural for your paths to
diverge. They are the architects whom advise you on segments of your journey,
but not the journey itself. And yet, through walking the guide-built path you
may find yourself in a similar direction as the guides, but that is not the
focus of the guide, that is just a possible effect.

## Why are guides important?
Guides bring forth an awareness to our journey that is temporaly more
significant to us in the present. Often, it is difficult for us assess the
situations that are thrust upon us, and how we must navigate them in order to
truly further our goals. And we are naturally inclined to compare, but often
to weak frames of reference. The painter has little use in the rigurous
analysis of their path in relation to the path of their friend, the
accountant, or to the path of their idol, a historical and/or private figure
(both of which have very little insight to give); yet we do these things
anyways. And it causes a great split: between our identity, what we
_think_ we should be doing, and what we _are_ doing.<br>
It is paramount to keep those things aligned. And we can begin through the
recognition of our guides in _this_ present moment. Who _do_ we look
to? Not just the figures we think about now and again, and are inspired by
their tenacity or vision, but who are we looking at _right now_ for
insight?

---
### And so, who are _my_ guides?
This was actually a pretty fun mental model to explore. As I was exploring
this idea. I came to realize, I was actually very unclear as to who my current
guides are. And it took me a bit of time to really get that list together, but
now that I have, I certainly feel a greater sense of awareness; _and that
feels good!_

<small>Note: before we continue, there are some _kinda_ spoilery notes
about The Witness coming up, so please consider tuning out if you haven't yet
gotten the chance to play this amazing game.</small>

#### Jonathan Blow
It was March 26, 2016 at roughly 12:48pm PDT that Mr.Blow first planted a
magic seed into my noggin. Now this all occured, during a particularly
difficult period in my life. And I thought, from the little bits of The
Witness hype I overheard, that maybe, _maybe,_ the puzzles in this game
can help me regrow some clarity, in my otherwise decayed status.<br><br>
I did not realize at the time, that The Witness was a game that secretly
brought the player forth into states of mindfulness. Almost _exactly_
what I needed in a game at that moment. And most peculiarly, this was also a
time when in a _completely different effort_ I had picked up a book on
The Buddha's first teachings; completely coincidental, yet, so incredibly
serendipitous. It really kind of added an extra layer to the whole
experience.<br><br>
And I remember reading something from Jonathan at one point, when he said
something to the affect of, "Don't let _pundits_ define for you, what a
game should be". And as I played The Witness, and as I discovered the.._kind
of amazing moments that are in the game,_ that idea of letting go of
popular preconceptions, pulled itself out of the ether of my memories,
directly into the center of my being, and _resonated_.

#### FrankeSmileShow
I have been following Francis Coloumbe's work since I was _twelve_.
Seeing him transform and grow, has been an amazing and incredibly encouraging
experience. When I first experienced Frankie, it was through Sluggy's
Adventure, a game _so rudimentary_ in design and art-direction, that
looking back now, I'm sure even he kind of chuckles at how rough his start
was; and not in a way the he's ashamed, but in a way that he is proud. Because
now? Frankie is this.. _part machine, part sanctuary_ of game and art,
energy. The pace and consistency at which he produces these incredible pieces
of art, animation, and prototypes is aboslutley astounding. And it's not just
that he unstoppably churns at his passions, it's that he does it with the most
humble and casual of demeanors. _yeah, idk arts just happen_

#### William Chyr
William first entered my cognizance during my batch at the Recurse Center,
where after taking up a peer's offer for a massage in exchange for cool-facts,
she informed me of her baloonman-turned-game-developer-friend. Now of course,
the whole situation was strange enough that I was sufficently intriguied. And
that's when I discovered, this game that has been on my radar for a while,
Manifold Garden, was being developed by this very same man. And I was
astounded that I had any connection at all to the developer of such an
interesting and wonderous title. More importantly, I discovered _his
stream_.
William is a man whom, through doubts both self and familial, and stress both
creative and temporal, continually manages to find the drive and raw willpower
to continue ever onward, climbing up that mountain of passion. And all the
while, he carries with him a most sinscere cordiality. William is phenomenal.
It is _sooo~_ refreshing to see someone actively not only encouraging,
but embodying positive health within the creative stratosphere -- a place
often plagued by the romanticization of poor health and balance. It was
William Chyr that got me thinking more actively about my diet, and I'm pretty
sure it was he whom _really helped_ seed my fervor for health in
creativity.

#### Lavhorre
Probably the most recent and temporarly fluid of influences, Brittany
Salzone brings with her this most playful _yet focused_ attitude to her
process. Through her stream I grew the courage to try my hand at illustration.
But not just illustration, but the attitude and attenion I bring to it. It was
here that I began taking higher education in a creative field more seriously,
and it was here that I began to first question the shame I had been carrying
for so long about my creative passion. And with my questions came a
liberation; a freedom.<br>
The strangest circumstances bring forth the most incredible of reflections. I
am very thankful to Lavhorre for enabling me in that way.

And I'm very thankful to _all of the guides_ in this list, for
enabling, and continuing to enable, my path.
